.\" 
.\" Man page for i4b-syssetup
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" (c) 2008 by flonatel (sf@flonatel.org)
.\"
.TH i4b-syssetup 5 2009-10-07 "Linux" "Linux booting"
.SH NAME
i4b-syssetup \- set up system to create initramfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
There is the need for some special preparations to run the 
.B i4b-mkinitramfs
command.  
.SH OVERVIEW
There are three possibilities to set up a system for initramfs creation:
use the current system, copy over the files from a foreign system or
install a new system in a directory.
.SH "DEPENDENCIES"
.P
In all of the three solutions, there must be a number of packges
installed / to be installed, to get everything working.
.P
It is not possible to have the automatic dependencies to these
packages, because the build system might be different from the target
system.
.P
The following packages (as of Debian 4r3 stable) must be installed:
.TP
python
.TP
multipath-tools
.TP
open-iscsi
.TP
atftp
.TP
kpartx (not for stable)
.P
For building the package also the following packages are needed:
.TP
fakeroot
.TP
debhelper
.TP
gcc (for determination of the system type only)
.SH "CURRENT SYSTEM"
This is the easiest way to use.  Just use the data from the current
system and create a initramfs from this.
To use this, use '-r /' as parameter to the
.B i4b-mkinitramfs
program.
.SH "COPY OVER"
Install some system, and copy over the directories
.B /sbin /bin /etc
to a directory on the build system.  Then specify this directory with
the -r parameter to 
.B i4b-mkinitramfs
.SH "DEBOOTSTRAP"
Use debootstrap (or a similar thing for your distribution) to install
a new system in a directory.  Also install the packages (typically
with fakeroot) described in section 
.B DEPENDENCIES.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B init4boot(7)
- Overview over the different aspects of the init4boot package.
.P
.B i4b-mkinitramfs(1)
- tool for creating an initramfs
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Andreas Florath (sf@flonatel.org)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2008-2009 by flonatel (sf@flonatel.org).
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later

