.\" 
.\" Man page for makeinitramfs
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" (c) 2008 by flonatel (sf@flonatel.org)
.\"
.TH init4boot 7 2008-04-15 "Linux" "Linux booting"
.SH NAME
i4b-makeinitramfs \- create an initramfs for boot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B i4b-makeinitramfs
.B \-o 
.I out-initramfs
.B \-r
.I root-directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B i4b-makeinitramfs
utility creates the initramfs for the system specified by the 
.B -r
switch.  With the help
of this initramfs it is possible to boot.
.P
Compated to other tools, the resulting initramfs is universal usable -
there are no configuration parameters and / or files included.  Every
aspect of the boot process can be controlled by the boot command line
parmaters. ( see 
.B i4b-bootparams(5)
)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-o\fR
.I out-initramfs
.P
The name of the initramfs that will be written.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
.I root-dir
.P
The path to the root dir to use for building the initramfs.  This can
be the root directory of the current running system (/) but also a
path to an installation done with debootstrap.
.SH "PERMISSIONS"
Every normal user can run this script - there is no need to be root.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B init4boot(7)
- Overview over the different aspects of the init4boot package.
.P
.B i4b-bootparams(5)
- paramters to configure the boot process
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Andreas Florath (sf@flonatel.org)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2008 by flonatel (sf@flonatel.org).
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later

