.\" 
.\" Man page for whole package init4boot
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" (c) 2008 by flonatel (sf@flonatel.org)
.\"
.TH init4boot 7 2008-04-04 "Linux" "Linux booting"
.SH NAME
init4boot \- create initramfs for boot - overview -
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B init4boot 
package is used to create an initramfs for booting a
Linux system.  
.SH OVERVIEW
Some steps are needed to get it up and running.
.P 
First the initramfs must be created, then
.P 
the initramfs must be installed, and
.P 
special parameters must be used to configure the boot process. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B i4b-mkinitramfs(1)
- tool for creating an initramfs
.P
.B i4b-bootparams(5)
- paramters to configure the boot process
.B i4b-syssetup(5)
- small howto prepare a system to run init4boot scripts.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Andreas Florath (sf@flonatel.org)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2008-2009 by flonatel (sf@flonatel.org).
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later

